Docs for Promise subclasses (#8125)
reactjs/reactjs.org: src/content/reference/react/use.md

---

### Avoiding fallbacks by passing Promise subclasses {/*avoiding-fallbacks-by-passing-promise-subclasses*/}

If you are implementing a Suspense-enabled library, you can help React avoid unnecessarily suspending when you know the Promise has already settled, by using `status` and `value` or `reason` fields.

React will read the `status` field on the Promise to synchronously read the value without having to wait for a microtask. If the Promise is already settled (resolved or rejected), React can read the value immediately without suspending and showing a fallback if the update was not part of a Transition (e.g. [`ReactDOM.flushSync()`](/reference/react-dom/flushSync)).

> React will set the `status` field itself if the passed Promise does not have this field set. Suspense-enabled libraries should set the `status` field on the Promises they create to avoid unnecessary fallbacks.

Reviewer: I think this is good!

Maybe `... if the update was not part of a Transition (e.g. [`ReactDOM.flushSync()`](/reference/react-dom/flushSync))` is too much detail here? At least for me it made the sentence slightly harder to parse and didn't seem that important in this specific context, but not a big deal.

I wondered what it would look like if the docs tried to explain the basics more and noodled on a separate approach, I'm not at all sure this is better or captures everything correctly, so just an exploration:

```suggestion
In JavaScript, Promise callbacks always run in a "microtask", even if the Promise has already settled. This means that if you call `use(alreadySettledPromise)`, React can not synchronously resolve its values and has to unnecessarily suspend.

By adding `status: 'fulfilled' | 'rejected'` and either `value` or `reason` to the Promise when it settles, your library can make it possible for React to access these values synchronously and avoid suspending. It is recommended for Suspense-enabled libraries to do this.

React will set these fields itself if the passed Promise does not have them set.
```

Reviewer: I like that. The preload case might be another one that's easy to understand and helps explain things.

Calling `use` conditionally depending on whether a Promise is settled or not is discouraged. `use` should be called unconditionally so that React DevTools can show that the Component may suspend on data.

<Recipes titleText="Difference between setting the status field in your library and not setting the status field" titleId="difference-between-setting-the-status-field-in-your-library-and-not-setting-the-status-field">

#### Passing a basic Promise {/*passing-a-basic-promise*/}

<Sandpack>

```js src/App.js active
import { Suspense, use, useState } from "react";

function preloadUser(id) {
  // This is not a real implementation of getting the
  // Promise for the user. A real implementation would
  // probably call `fetch` or another data fetching method.
  // The actual implementation should cache the Promise.
  const promise = Promise.resolve(`User #${id}`);

  return promise;
}

function UserDetails({ userUsable }) {
  const user = use(userUsable);
  return <p>Hello, {user}!</p>;
}

export default function App() {
  const [userId, setUserId] = useState(null);
  // The initial

>   const [userUsable, setUser] = useState(null);

Reviewer 2: Regarding the third point, I noticed the TypeScript/Flow definitions use `usable` as well:

```typescript
export function use<T>(usable: Usable<T>): T;
```

WDYT about aligning the docs with that terminology (e.g. `use(resource)` -> `use(usable)`)?

        this.value = value;
        resolve(value);
      },
      (reason) => {
        this.status = "rejected";
        this.reason = reason;
        reject(reason);
      }
    );
  }
}

function preloadUser(id) {
  // This is not a real implementation of getting the
  // Promise for the user. A real implementation would
  // probably call `fetch` or another data fetching method.
  // The actual implementation should cache the Promise.
  // The important part is that we are using the
  // PromiseWithStatus subclass here. Check out the next
  // step if you're not controlling the Promise creation
  // (e.g. when `fetch` is used).
  const promise = PromiseWithStatus.resolve(`User #${id}`);

  return promise;
}

function UserDetails({ userUsable }) {
  const user = use(userUsable);
  return <p>Hello, {user}!</p>;
}

export default function App() {
  const [userId, setUserId] = useState(null);
  // The initial
  const [userUsable, setUser] = useState(null);

  return (
    <div>
      <button
        onClick={() => {
          // flushSync is only used for illustration
          // purposes. A real app would probably use
          // startTransition instead.

>           flushSync(() => {

Reviewer 3: One point that's in favor of not having it is if you're using the Compiler, then the code works because everything is memoized correctly. But I still don't like the idea of synchronously setting the value your'e suspending on - you just shouldn't do that. 

Instead, a better example would be if there was something in `UserDetails` that was idiomatically a sync update that needed to re-render, like a text input. Then that update wouldn't be in a transition, and you'd need to handle it correctly so it doesn't just suspend the text input you're typing in on every key press.

>           flushSync(() => {

Reviewer: The simplest case I can think of thats also common is likely just loading the page with prefetched data? Not sure if there is special behavior or if it makes for a good example though.

>           flushSync(() => {

Author: I don't think it helps showing a more involved example. This is good enough for me so that we have something to link to. Feel free to merge or include an example that helps understand the status field.

---

### Avoiding fallbacks by passing Promise subclasses {/*avoiding-fallbacks-by-passing-promise-subclasses*/}

> React will read the `status` field on Promise subclasses to synchronously read the value without waiting for a microtask. If the Promise is already settled (resolved or rejected), React can read the value immediately without suspending and showing a fallback if the update was not part of a Transition (e.g. [`ReactDOM.flushSync()`](/reference/react-dom/flushSync)).

Reviewer 4: Yea while you can use a custom Thenable, it's probably recommended to just use a native Promise for this.

You can make it a sub-class like such:

```js
class FulfilledPromise extends Promise {
  status = 'fulfilled';
  value = null;
  constructor(data) {
     super(resolve => resolve(data));
     this.value = data;
  }
}
const promise = new FulfilledPromise(data);
```

This makes it more palatable for sticklers that thinks adding expandos to native objects is bad. It shows that the pattern is encouraged by the platform. If it wasn't, then why can I sub-class natives? If can't add fields, what am I supposed to do with those sub-classes?

But in practice when you're not adding any methods to the prototype this is really just the same thing as:

```js
const promise = Promise.resolve(data);
promise.status = 'fulfilled';
promise.value = data;
```

Which is smaller code and faster, so why not do that? It also doesn't risk getting compiled which would break native subclassing.

So maybe document one stickler version and one faster version (and hint that thenables might be even faster).

> React will read the `status` field on Promise subclasses to synchronously read the value without waiting for a microtask. If the Promise is already settled (resolved or rejected), React can read the value immediately without suspending and showing a fallback if the update was not part of a Transition (e.g. [`ReactDOM.flushSync()`](/reference/react-dom/flushSync)).

Author: done

> React will set the `status` field itself if the passed Promise does not have this field set. Suspense-enabled libraries should set the `status` field on the Promises they create to avoid unnecessary fallbacks. Calling `use` conditionally depending on whether a Promise is settled or not is discouraged. `use` should be called unconditionally so that React DevTools can show that the Component may suspend on data.

Reviewer: I think this is great content and very helpful! 

It's a pretty advanced topic though so maybe point out the intended audience early? Maybe lead with:

> If you are implementing a Suspense-enabled library, you can help React avoid unnecessarily suspending when you know the promise has already settled, by using `status` and `value` or `reason` fields.

I think "subclass" and "microtask" is likely language that will trip people up, but if it's clear this is an advanced topic I think that's fine.

Maybe be a bit more explicit about the rejected/reason case as well?

> Calling `use` conditionally depending on whether a Promise is settled or not is discouraged. `use` should be called unconditionally so that React DevTools can show that the Component may suspend on data.

I think this should be its own paragraph as it's a separate point.
